proposals/2024-06-14_mixxx_e_v.md, before:

## Your Proposal Title

* **Owners:**
  * Daniel Schürmann

* **Implementation Status:** `Not implemented`

* **Related Issues and PRs:**

* **Other docs or links:**
  * https://ev.kde.org/corporate/statutes/
  * https://phabricator.kde.org/T12954

* This design doc shall be used to file our Articles of Assoziation 

## Draft

# Articles of Association - Mixxx e.V.

As a non-profit corporation incorporated under German law, Mixxx e.V. is
required to declare its intentions and by-laws in a formal "Articles of 
Association" document. The original and legally binding version is the German 
version. The following translation is for information only.

## Clarification of Terminology

1. Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) refers to coputer programs that 
   respects the freedom of the user and the community. It grants everyone the 
   right to run, study, modify and redistribute the software. This promotes
   the common good as everyone can use the software and adapt it to their 
   needs. FOSS is particularly beneficial for schools, artists and musicians 
   with low budgets or incomes, as it gives them access to powerful tools for 
   education, creativity and productivity without financial barriers.
2. Developing free and open source software involves research, compilation of 
   principles and concepts, and their testing through programming and testing 
   of free software.
3. "Mixxx" is a DJ software developed as free and open source software and 
   available to the public free of charge. It allows users to mix music tracks 
   in real-time, providing features such as beatmatching, crossfading, and 
   various sound effects. 
   
## 1. Association Name, Registered Office, Financial Year

1. The Association is registered as Mixxx e.V.
2. The registered offices are located in Berlin. If no fixed office is 
   established, it will be managed from the residence of the Board member 
   acting as general manager.
3. It is listed under the appropriate register in the District Court’s 
   Register of Associations.
4. The financial year is the calendar year.

## 2. Purpose of the Association

1. The Association’s purpose is explain the basics in digital DJ-ing to 
   beginners and educate software developemen students and other interested in 
   digital sound processing and online colaboration. For this pupose we 
   promote and distribute free and open source DJ software, particularly 
   "Mixxx". This gives the equality of opportunity in starting with dgital 
   DJ-ing in bedrooms, school parties and up to professional applications. In 
   addition it allows free exchange of knowledge, for education, science and 
   research.
2. The articles aim to:
   1. Distribute Mixxx as a free and open source software
   2. Distribute Manuals and Guides
   3. Organize user support and education 
   4. Mentor students during interneships for learning software development.
   5. Maintaining the development infrastructur for easy code access
3. Amendments to the association’s purpose may only be made in accordance with 
   §3 (1).

## 3. Non-profit Association

1. The Association’s activities are exclusively non-profit according to the 
   the criteria for tax-privileged entities in accordance with German Tax 
   Regulations. Its activities are for the common good and not for profit.
2. Financial means may only be used for purposes stipulated in the Articles of 
   Association. Members are reimbursed for expenses but do not receive direct 
   benefits from the Association’s funds.
3. It is not permitted to favor someone through association expenditures that 
   do not serve the association's purpose or are disproportionately high.

## 4. Types of Membership and Members of the Association

1. Membership is open to natural persons and legal bodies supporting the 
   association's aims. Membership types include:
   1. **Core members**: Natural persons actively supporting the Association’s 
      purpose and aims. Primarily, they are expected to cooperate and contribute, 
      participate in the general assembly and exercise their voting rights.
   2. **Extraordinary members**: Natural persons and legal bodies supporting the 
      Association’s aims but without voting rights and obligations to cooperate. 
      This gives members the opportunity to pause their cooperation and contribution 
      to Mixxx without necessarily losing their membership.
   3. **Supporting Members**: Extraordinary members primarily supporting through 
      financial or material contributions. They have the right to participate in
      the General Assemblies without voting rights.
2. Core membership is granted upon suggestion or application by the General 
   Assembly or through an internet vote of the core members. Criteria include 
   long-term commitment and contributions.
3. An core members can change status to that of an extraordinary members by 
   submitting their request to the Board. Should an active member not fulfil the 
   above mentioned duties over a period of two consecutive general meetings, the 
   membership will automatically change into an extraordinary membership.
4. Membership terminates due to withdrawal, expulsion, death, or loss of legal 
   status. Withdrawal from the association shall take effect at the end of the 
   following calendar month in which the declaration of withdrawal was
   submitted.
5. The expulsion of a member may be decided by the General Assembly or by 
   Internet vote in the event of a critical situation where an amicable solution 
   cannot be reached. The following reasons may cause an expulsion:
   a) Serious violations of regulations in the Articles of Association, 
      the purpose and aim of the Association or the Code of Conduct.
   b) non-paiment of membership fees over a period of 12 months despite repeated 
      reminders.
   Members must be given the opportunity to justify their actions
   before expulsion.
5. Members leaving the Association or if the Association is liquidated do not 
   have a right to reimbursement for contributed assets.

## 5. Organs of the Association

- The General Assembly
- The Board

## 6. General Assembly

1. The General Assembly consists of all core members, each with one vote.
2. It takes place at least once a year, with invitations including a 
   preliminary agenda is sent to all core and extraordinary members at 
   least six weeks prior. The members may submit additional agenda items to 
   the board until two weeks before the assembly. The Board will publish the 
   final agenda online.
3. An extraordinary General Assembly may be called if requested by at least 
   20 % of core members. 
4. The General Assembly has a quorum if the invitation was submitted in proper 
   form. Should the number of pro and contra votes should be equal, an 
   application is considered as dismissed.
5. A 3/4 majority of votes is required to amend the Articles of Association or 
   decide the liquidation of the Association.
6. Core members unable to attend may be represented by another member with 
   written authorization.
7. Participation and voting in the General Assembly must also be possible via
   electronic communication. By resolution of the Board, a General Assembly 
   may be held exclusively by these means.

## 7. Duties of the General Assembly

1. The General Assembly is the highest decision-making organ and is
   responsible for all duties unless otherwise assigned.
2. It elects the Board and can deselect board members.
3. It decides on member expulsion objections.
4. It receives the Board’s annual report and auditor’s report, and discharges 
   the Board’s responsibilities.
5. It decides on amendments to the Articles of Association and liquidation of 
   the Association.
6. Namely the annual accounts and the annual report have to be presented in 
   written format to the General Assembly for decision making and discharge 
   of the board. It calls on an auditor, who belong neither to the board nor 
   any other panel appointed by the board and who is not employed by the 
   association, in order to audit the accounting and annual report and 
   relate their results to the General Assembly. The auditors have access 
   to all of the Association’s accounting documents.
7. It decides on purchases, sales, investments, and raising loans.

## 8. The Board

1. The Board consists of the Chairman, the Second Chairman, and the Treasurer 
   elected for a 3-year term.
   
   TODO: Define the role responsibilities. 
   
2. The Board’s duties and meeting procedures are stipulated in the by-laws.
3. The Board decides on all matters unless a General Assembly decision is 
   required. It implements the decisions taken by the General Assembly.
4. Each Board member has the right to represent the Association.
5. Provisional board members are appointed in case of a vacancy until the next 
   General Assembly.
6. The Board can appoint a full-time director to manage current affairs.
7. The director participates in General Assemblies and Board meetings.
8. The Board can amend the Articles of Association for formal reasons as 
   required by authorities.

## 9. By-Laws

The by-laws govern all details of the Association’s activities not covered in 
the Articles of Association. The Board implements the by-laws following
core member approval by internet vote. 

## 10. Meeting Minutes

All decisions by the Board and General Assembly are documented in writing in 
German and available for members’ perusal and for the examination of the 
resolutions by the registry court. 

## 11. Internet vote

The Association may conduct votes via the Internet. An Internet vote is valid 
after an announcement via email or messenger, and if a quorum of at least 
1/3 of the core members participates. The voting period must be at least two 
weeks after announcment to ensure that members have sufficient time to cast 
their votes.

## 12. Labour Agreements

The Board regulates remuneration for full-time employees in the by-laws.

## 13. Financing of the Association

1. The Association is funded through membership fees, public contributions,
   donations, and other financial contributions.
2. Membership fees are decided by the General Assembly or through an internet 
   vote of the core members.
3. In case of dissolution or liquidation, all assets will go to a suitable non-
   profit organization for non-profit purposes.

## 14. Data Protection in the Association

1. In order to fulfill the purposes and tasks of the association, personal data
   of the members are processed in compliance with the provisions of the EU 
   General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Federal Data Protection 
   Act (BDSG).
2. The organs of the Association and other persons working for it are 
   prohibited from processing personal data or or making it accessible to 
   third parties, without authorization for purposes other than the respective 
   task. This obligation also applies after the above-mentioned persons have 
   left the Association.

## 15. Inception of the Articles of Association

These Articles of Association came into effect following a General Assembly 
decision and replace any previous Articles effective since their date of 
establishment.

Commit message:

Clarify that the purpose of Mixxx e.V. is not to control the Mixxx development.

proposals/2024-06-14_mixxx_e_v.md, after:

## Your Proposal Title

* **Owners:**
  * Daniel Schürmann

* **Implementation Status:** `Not implemented`

* **Related Issues and PRs:**

* **Other docs or links:**
  * https://ev.kde.org/corporate/statutes/
  * https://phabricator.kde.org/T12954

* This design doc shall be used to file our Articles of Assoziation 

## Draft

# Articles of Association - Mixxx e.V.

As a non-profit corporation incorporated under German law, Mixxx e.V. is
required to declare its intentions and by-laws in a formal "Articles of 
Association" document. The original and legally binding version is the German 
version. The following translation is for information only.

## Clarification of Terminology

1. Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) refers to coputer programs that 
   respects the freedom of the user and the community. It grants everyone the 
   right to run, study, modify and redistribute the software. This promotes
   the common good as everyone can use the software and adapt it to their 
   needs. FOSS is particularly beneficial for schools, artists and musicians 
   with low budgets or incomes, as it gives them access to powerful tools for 
   education, creativity and productivity without financial barriers.
2. Developing free and open source software involves research, compilation of 
   principles and concepts, and their testing through programming and testing 
   of free software.
3. "Mixxx" is a DJ software developed as free and open source software and 
   available to the public free of charge. It allows users to mix music tracks 
   in real-time, providing features such as beatmatching, crossfading, and 
   various sound effects. 
   
## 1. Association Name, Registered Office, Financial Year

1. The Association is registered as Mixxx e.V.
2. The registered offices are located in Berlin. If no fixed office is 
   established, it will be managed from the residence of the Board member 
   acting as general manager.
3. It is listed under the appropriate register in the District Court’s 
   Register of Associations.
4. The financial year is the calendar year.

## 2. Purpose of the Association

1. The Association’s purpose is explain the basics in digital DJ-ing to 
   beginners and educate software developemen students and other interested in 
   digital sound processing and online colaboration. For this pupose we 
   promote and distribute free and open source DJ software, particularly 
   "Mixxx". This gives the equality of opportunity in starting with dgital 
   DJ-ing in bedrooms, school parties and up to professional applications. In 
   addition it allows free exchange of knowledge, for education, science and 
   research.
2. The articles aim to:
   1. Distribute Mixxx as a free and open source software
   2. Distribute Manuals and Guides
   3. Organize user support and education 
   4. Mentor students during interneships for learning software development.
   5. Maintaining the development infrastructur for easy code access.
   6. Supporting the development of Mixxx without exercising control over 
      details unrelated to the association's purpose. 
3. Amendments to the association’s purpose may only be made in accordance with 
   §3 (1).

## 3. Non-profit Association

1. The Association’s activities are exclusively non-profit according to the 
   the criteria for tax-privileged entities in accordance with German Tax 
   Regulations. Its activities are for the common good and not for profit.
2. Financial means may only be used for purposes stipulated in the Articles of 
   Association. Members are reimbursed for expenses but do not receive direct 
   benefits from the Association’s funds.
3. It is not permitted to favor someone through association expenditures that 
   do not serve the association's purpose or are disproportionately high.

## 4. Types of Membership and Members of the Association

1. Membership is open to natural persons and legal bodies supporting the 
   association's aims. Membership types include:
   1. **Core members**: Natural persons actively supporting the Association’s 
      purpose and aims. Primarily, they are expected to cooperate and contribute, 
      participate in the general assembly and exercise their voting rights.
   2. **Extraordinary members**: Natural persons and legal bodies supporting the 
      Association’s aims but without voting rights and obligations to cooperate. 
      This gives members the opportunity to pause their cooperation and contribution 
      to Mixxx without necessarily losing their membership.
   3. **Supporting Members**: Extraordinary members primarily supporting through 
      financial or material contributions. They have the right to participate in
      the General Assemblies without voting rights.
2. Core membership is granted upon suggestion or application by the General 
   Assembly or through an internet vote of the core members. Criteria include 
   long-term commitment and contributions.
3. An core members can change status to that of an extraordinary members by 
   submitting their request to the Board. Should an active member not fulfil the 
   above mentioned duties over a period of two consecutive general meetings, the 
   membership will automatically change into an extraordinary membership.
4. Membership terminates due to withdrawal, expulsion, death, or loss of legal 
   status. Withdrawal from the association shall take effect at the end of the 
   following calendar month in which the declaration of withdrawal was
   submitted.
5. The expulsion of a member may be decided by the General Assembly or by 
   Internet vote in the event of a critical situation where an amicable solution 
   cannot be reached. The following reasons may cause an expulsion:
   a) Serious violations of regulations in the Articles of Association, 
      the purpose and aim of the Association or the Code of Conduct.
   b) non-paiment of membership fees over a period of 12 months despite repeated 
      reminders.
   Members must be given the opportunity to justify their actions
   before expulsion.
5. Members leaving the Association or if the Association is liquidated do not 
   have a right to reimbursement for contributed assets.

## 5. Organs of the Association

- The General Assembly
- The Board

## 6. General Assembly

1. The General Assembly consists of all core members, each with one vote.
2. It takes place at least once a year, with invitations including a 
   preliminary agenda is sent to all core and extraordinary members at 
   least six weeks prior. The members may submit additional agenda items to 
   the board until two weeks before the assembly. The Board will publish the 
   final agenda online.
3. An extraordinary General Assembly may be called if requested by at least 
   20 % of core members. 
4. The General Assembly has a quorum if the invitation was submitted in proper 
   form. Should the number of pro and contra votes should be equal, an 
   application is considered as dismissed.
5. A 3/4 majority of votes is required to amend the Articles of Association or 
   decide the liquidation of the Association.
6. Core members unable to attend may be represented by another member with 
   written authorization.
7. Participation and voting in the General Assembly must also be possible via
   electronic communication. By resolution of the Board, a General Assembly 
   may be held exclusively by these means.

## 7. Duties of the General Assembly

1. The General Assembly is the highest decision-making organ and is
   responsible for all duties unless otherwise assigned.
2. It elects the Board and can deselect board members.
3. It decides on member expulsion objections.
4. It receives the Board’s annual report and auditor’s report, and discharges 
   the Board’s responsibilities.
5. It decides on amendments to the Articles of Association and liquidation of 
   the Association.
6. Namely the annual accounts and the annual report have to be presented in 
   written format to the General Assembly for decision making and discharge 
   of the board. It calls on an auditor, who belong neither to the board nor 
   any other panel appointed by the board and who is not employed by the 
   association, in order to audit the accounting and annual report and 
   relate their results to the General Assembly. The auditors have access 
   to all of the Association’s accounting documents.
7. It decides on purchases, sales, investments, and raising loans.

## 8. The Board

1. The Board consists of the Chairman, the Second Chairman, and the Treasurer 
   elected for a 3-year term.
   
   TODO: Define the role responsibilities. 
   
2. The Board’s duties and meeting procedures are stipulated in the by-laws.
3. The Board decides on all matters unless a General Assembly decision is 
   required. It implements the decisions taken by the General Assembly.
4. Each Board member has the right to represent the Association.
5. Provisional board members are appointed in case of a vacancy until the next 
   General Assembly.
6. The Board can appoint a full-time director to manage current affairs.
7. The director participates in General Assemblies and Board meetings.
8. The Board can amend the Articles of Association for formal reasons as 
   required by authorities.

## 9. By-Laws

The by-laws govern all details of the Association’s activities not covered in 
the Articles of Association. The Board implements the by-laws following
core member approval by internet vote. 

## 10. Meeting Minutes

All decisions by the Board and General Assembly are documented in writing in 
German and available for members’ perusal and for the examination of the 
resolutions by the registry court. 

## 11. Internet vote

The Association may conduct votes via the Internet. An Internet vote is valid 
after an announcement via email or messenger, and if a quorum of at least 
1/3 of the core members participates. The voting period must be at least two 
weeks after announcment to ensure that members have sufficient time to cast 
their votes.

## 12. Labour Agreements

The Board regulates remuneration for full-time employees in the by-laws.

## 13. Financing of the Association

1. The Association is funded through membership fees, public contributions,
   donations, and other financial contributions.
2. Membership fees are decided by the General Assembly or through an internet 
   vote of the core members.
3. In case of dissolution or liquidation, all assets will go to a suitable non-
   profit organization for non-profit purposes.

## 14. Data Protection in the Association

1. In order to fulfill the purposes and tasks of the association, personal data
   of the members are processed in compliance with the provisions of the EU 
   General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Federal Data Protection 
   Act (BDSG).
2. The organs of the Association and other persons working for it are 
   prohibited from processing personal data or or making it accessible to 
   third parties, without authorization for purposes other than the respective 
   task. This obligation also applies after the above-mentioned persons have 
   left the Association.

## 15. Inception of the Articles of Association

These Articles of Association came into effect following a General Assembly 
decision and replace any previous Articles effective since their date of 
establishment.
