# Your Proposal Title

* **Owners:**
  * Daniel Schürmann

* **Implementation Status:** `Not implemented`

* **Related Issues and PRs:**

* **Other docs or links:**
  * <https://ev.kde.org/corporate/statutes/>
  * <https://phabricator.kde.org/T12954>

* This design doc shall be used to file our Articles of Association

## Draft

## Articles of Association - Mixxx e.V. -

As a non-profit corporation incorporated under German law, Mixxx e.V. is
required to declare its intentions and by-laws in a formal "Articles of
Association" document. The original and legally binding version is the German
version. The following translation is for information only.

## Clarification of Terminology

1. Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) refers to computer programs that
   respects the freedom of the user and the community. It grants everyone the
   right to run, study, modify and redistribute the software. This promotes
   the common good as everyone can use the software and adapt it to their
   needs. FOSS is particularly beneficial for schools, artists and musicians
   with low budgets or incomes, as it gives them access to powerful tools for
   education, creativity and productivity without financial barriers.
2. Developing free and open source software involves research, compilation of
   principles and concepts, and their testing through programming and testing
   of free software.
3. "Mixxx" is a DJ software developed as free and open source software and
   available to the public free of charge. It allows users to mix music tracks
   in real-time, providing features such as beatmatching, crossfading, and
   various sound effects.

## 1. Association Name, Registered Office, Financial Year

1. The Association is registered as Mixxx e.V.
2. The registered offices are located in Berlin. If no fixed office is
   established, it will be managed from the residence of the Board member
   acting as general manager.
3. It is listed under the appropriate register in the District Court’s
   Register of Associations.
4. The financial year is the calendar year.

## 2. Purpose of the Association

1. The Association’s purpose is to promote education and occupational training
   as well as art and culture. It provides live performance artists with the
   basic building blocks for individual music-performing setups on a free and
   open source basis and advises them on the basics of digital DJ-ing as well as
   the implementation of unique extensions necessary for their personal
   artistic style. It also also educate software developers in digital sound
   processing and online collaboration.
   For these purposes, we promote and distribute free and open source DJ
   software, particularly "Mixxx". This gives artists equal of opportunities
   to start with digital DJ-ing regardless of financial means and allows
   software developers to review implementation details and contribute changes.
2. The articles aim to:
   1. Distribute Mixxx as a free and open source software to support
      educational, art, and cultural purposes
   2. Distribute manuals and guides to aid learning and development
   3. Organize user support and education programs
   4. Mentor students during internships for learning software development
   5. Build an inclusive and diverse community, welcoming contributors of
      all backgrounds, genders and skill levels
   6. Maintain the development infrastructur for a low entry barriers
   7. Supporting the development of Mixxx without exercising control over
      details unrelated to the association's rules and purpose
   8. Support the authorities with expertise in the DJ hardware and
      software environment (for instance in competition inquiries)
3. Amendments to the association’s purpose may only be made in accordance with
   §3 (1).

## 3. Non-profit Association

1. The Association’s activities are exclusively non-profit according to the
   the criteria for tax-privileged entities in accordance with German Tax
   Regulations. The Association and its activities are politically, ethnically
   and denominationally neutral. They are for the common good and not for profit.
2. Financial means may only be used for purposes stipulated in the Articles of
   Association. Members are reimbursed for expenses but do not receive direct
   benefits from the Association’s funds.
3. It is not permitted to favor someone through association expenditures that
   do not serve the association's purpose or are disproportionately high.

## 4. Types of Membership and Members of the Association

1. Membership is open to natural persons and legal bodies supporting the
   association's aims. Membership types include:
   1. **Core members**: Natural persons actively supporting the Association’s
      purpose and aims. Primarily, they are expected to cooperate and contribute,
      participate in the general assembly and exercise their voting rights.
   2. **Extraordinary members**: Natural persons and legal bodies supporting the
      Association’s aims but without voting rights and obligations to cooperate.
      This gives members the opportunity to pause their cooperation and contribution
      to Mixxx without necessarily losing their membership.
   3. **Supporting Members**: Extraordinary members primarily supporting through
      financial or material contributions. They have the right to participate in
      the General Assemblies without voting rights.
2. Core membership is granted upon suggestion or application by the General
   Assembly or through an internet vote of the core members. Criteria include
   long-term commitment and contributions.
3. A core members can change status to that of an extraordinary members by
   submitting their request to the Board. Should an active member not fulfil the
   above mentioned duties over a period of two consecutive general meetings, the
   membership will automatically change into an extraordinary membership.
4. Membership terminates due to withdrawal, expulsion, death, or loss of legal
   status. Withdrawal from the association shall take effect at the end of the
   following calendar month in which the declaration of withdrawal was
   submitted.
5. The expulsion of a member may be decided by the General Assembly or by
   Internet vote in the event of a critical situation where an amicable solution
   cannot be reached. The following reasons may cause an expulsion:
   a) Serious violations of regulations in the Articles of Association,
      the purpose and aim of the Association or the Code of Conduct.
   b) non-paiment of membership fees over a period of 12 months despite repeated
      reminders.
   Members must be given the opportunity to justify their actions
   before expulsion.
6. Members leaving the Association or if the Association is liquidated do not
   have a right to reimbursement for contributed assets.

## 5. Organs of the Association

* The General Assembly
* The Board

## 6. General Assembly

1. The General Assembly consists of all core members, each with one vote.
2. It takes place at least once a year, with invitations including a
   preliminary agenda is sent to all core and extraordinary members at
   least six weeks prior. The members may submit additional agenda items to
   the board until two weeks before the assembly. The Board will publish the
   final agenda online.
3. An extraordinary General Assembly may be called if requested by at least
   20 % of core members.
4. The General Assembly has a quorum if the invitation was submitted in proper
   form. Should the number of pro and contra votes should be equal, an
   application is considered as dismissed.
5. A 3/4 majority of votes is required to amend the Articles of Association or
   decide the liquidation of the Association.
6. Core members unable to attend may be represented by another member with
   written authorization.
7. Participation and voting in the General Assembly must also be possible via
   electronic communication. By resolution of the Board, a General Assembly
   may be held exclusively by these means.

## 7. Duties of the General Assembly

1. The General Assembly is the highest decision-making organ and is
   responsible for all duties unless otherwise assigned.
2. It elects the Board from a number of active members and can deselect board
   members.
3. It decides on member expulsion objections.
4. It receives the Board’s annual report and auditor’s report, and discharges
   the Board’s responsibilities.
5. It decides on amendments to the Articles of Association and liquidation of
   the Association.
6. Namely the annual accounts and the annual report have to be presented in
   written format to the General Assembly for decision making and discharge
   of the board. It calls on an auditor, who belong neither to the board nor
   any other panel appointed by the board and who is not employed by the
   association, in order to audit the accounting and annual report and
   relate their results to the General Assembly. The auditors have access
   to all of the Association’s accounting documents.
7. It decides on purchases, sales, investments, and raising loans.

## 8. The Board

1. The Board consists of the Chairman, the Second Chairman, and the Treasurer
   elected for a 3-year term.

   TODO: Define the role responsibilities.

2. The Board’s duties and meeting procedures are stipulated in the by-laws.
3. The Board decides on all matters unless a General Assembly decision is
   required. It implements the decisions taken by the General Assembly.
4. Each Board member has the right to represent the Association.
5. Should a board member quit while in office, the board appoints a
   provisional board member on the basis of an internet vote. The provisional
   board member remains in office until the next General Assembly takes place.
   The General Assembly decides about the definite succession within the board.
6. In case expulsion of a board member according to §4 (5) it is replaced by a
   provisional board member.
7. The Board can appoint a full-time director to manage current affairs.
8. The director participates in General Assemblies and Board meetings.
9. The Board can amend the Articles of Association for formal reasons as
   required by authorities.

## 9. By-Laws

The by-laws govern all details of the Association’s activities not covered in
the Articles of Association. The Board implements the by-laws following
core member approval by internet vote.

## 10. Meeting Minutes

All decisions by the Board and General Assembly are documented in writing in
German and available for members’ perusal and for the examination of the
resolutions by the registry court.

## 11. Internet vote

The Association may conduct votes via the Internet. An Internet vote is valid
after an announcement via email or messenger, and if a quorum of at least
1/3 of the core members participates. The voting period must be at least two
weeks after announcement to ensure that members have sufficient time to cast
their votes.

## 12. Labour Agreements

The Board regulates remuneration for full-time employees in the by-laws.

## 13. Financing of the Association

1. The Association is funded through membership fees, public contributions,
   donations, and other financial contributions.
2. Membership fees are decided by the General Assembly or through an internet
   vote of the core members.
3. In case of dissolution or liquidation, all assets will go to a suitable non-
   profit organization for non-profit purposes.

## 14. Data Protection in the Association

1. In order to fulfill the purposes and tasks of the association, personal data
   of the members are processed in compliance with the provisions of the EU
   General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Federal Data Protection
   Act (BDSG).
2. The organs of the Association and other persons working for it are
   prohibited from processing personal data, private messages, or
   making it accessible to third parties, without authorization for purposes
   other than the respective task. This obligation also applies after the
   above-mentioned persons have left the Association.
3. The Association honors letter secrecy for all communications, in accordance
   with Article 10 of the German Basic Law, and commits to
   equivalent standards for international communications where applicable.
4. The Association respects the privacy choices of users of the provided
   web services and distributed software, allowing them to participate
   anonymously or with full identification.
5. The Association is committed to transparency and will not collect any user
   information without their explicit knowledge and consent.
6. In cases where the Association's services are provided by a third-party provider
   requiring a separate user login, the data protection policies of the third-party
   provider will apply.

## 15. Inception of the Articles of Association

These Articles of Association came into effect following a General Assembly
decision and replace any previous Articles effective since their date of
establishment.
